---
title: Insert title here
key: 083470e55f233861dbcb720e75e92b54

---
## Introduction to MongoDB

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "f65b96ae9a"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Miriam Antona
title: Software engineer


`@script`
Hello, I am Miriam Antona and I will introduce you to MongoDB world.
In this lesson we are going to learn how data is stored in MongoDB and how can we interact with it.


---
## What is MongoDB?

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "d78d607f9e"
```

`@part1`
- Open-source document database

- High performance

- High availability

- Automatic scaling


`@script`
MongoDB is an open-source document database that provides high performance, high availability, and automatic scaling.


---
## Data storage

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "1f183e6d86"
```

`@part1`
- Documents BSON format (records)
- Collections (tables)


```
{
    name: "Miriam",
    age: 34,
    job: "Software engineer",
    hobbies: ["hiking", "reading"]
}
```


`@script`
In MongoDB data is stored in Documents, just as Records in Relational Databases. The structure is a JSON document binary-encoded format called BSON.

Documents are stored in collections, which are analogous to tables in Relational Databases.

Here we have an example of a Document:
{
    name: "Miriam",
    age: 34,
    job: "Software engineer",
    hobbies: ["hiking", "reading"]
}


---
## Insert data (simple insertion)

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "adef905c2a"
```

`@part1`
- insertOne()


```
db.workers.insertOne(
		{name: "David", age: "24", job: "Consultant"}
	)
```


`@script`
In MongoDB we can insert a single document into a collection with the method insertOne()

The following example inserts one worker in workers collection:

	**db.workers.insertOne(
		{name: "David", age: "24", job: "Consultant"}
	)**

This method returns a document which has a new document's _id field value. It is like a primary key.
If the collection does not exist, MongoDB will create


---
## Insert data (multiple insertion)

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "d2ccc48c35"
```

`@part1`
- insertMany()

```
db.workers.insertMany([
   {name: "David", age: "24", job: "Consultant"},
   {name: "Ruben", age: "28", job: "Marketing"},
   {name: "Emma", age: "41", job: "Manager"}
])
```


`@script`
We can also insert multiple documents into a collection with insertMany() method, passing an array of documents.
Here we have an example of it:

db.workers.insertMany([
   {name: "David", age: "24", job: "Consultant"},
   {name: "Ruben", age: "28", job: "Marketing"},
   {name: "Emma", age: "41", job: "Manager"}
])

This method returns a document which has the new document's _id field value.


---
## Query documents (I)

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "bd862b641b"
```

`@part1`
- find()

```
db.workers.find({})
```
```
db.workers.find({job: "Manager"})
```


`@script`
We can retrieve the inserted documents with the method find()
In the following example all the workers will be listed:

db.workers.find({})


We can retrieve filter documents creating query filters. 
For example, if we want to select from the workers collection all whose job is Manager:

db.workers.find({job: "Manager"})


---
## Query documents(II)

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "594235d8b1"
```

`@part1`
- or operator
```
db.workers.find({ ({job: { $in: [ "Manager", "Consultant" ] } } )
```


`@script`
Or operator can be used in find method. For example, we want to select all workers whose job is Manager or Consultant:
db.workers.find({ ({job: { $in: [ "Manager", "Consultant" ] } } )


---
## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "41a78e0834"
```

`@script`


